README.md, before:

**Enmeshed Backbone Data Dashboard**

# Usage

Releases are available as Docker images in the [project's Github container registry](https://github.com/js-soft/nmshd-bkb-data-dashboard/pkgs/container/nmshd-bkb-data-dashboard). Containers are configured using the following obligatory environment variables:

- `MSSQL_HOSTNAME`: Hostname or IP-address of the backbone MSSQL server, e.g. _localhost_ or _10.8.16.44_.
- `MSSQL_PORT`: Port of MSSQL server, e.g. _1433_.
- `MSSQL_DB`: Name of the backbone database to target within the MSSQL server, e.g. _bkb-data_.
- `MSSQL_USER`: Username, e.g. _admin_.
- `MSSQL_PASSWORD`: Password for above user, e.g. _pa$$w0rd554_.
- `MSSQL_TARGET_ENCRYPT_CONNECTION`: Specifies if SQL encryption should be used for the target database connection. Must be either _true_ or _false_.
- `MSSQL_TRUST_SERVER_CERTIFICATE`: Specifies whether to use TLS to encrypt the target database connection and bypass walking the certificate chain to validate trust. Must be either _true_ or _false_.
- `DASHBOARD_HIDE_TEST_CLIENTS_DEFAULT`: Configures whether to hide or show data associated with test clients by default. Must be either _true_ or _false_.

The dashboard is exposed at port 5000 by default. For example, to launch a dashboard listening at _http://localhost:80_, which connects to a MSSQL server with the above exemplary credentials the following command may be used:

```bash
docker run --rm                                   \
	-p 80:5000                                    \
	-e MSSQL_HOSTNAME='10.8.16.44'                \
	-e MSSQL_PORT='1433'                          \
	-e MSSQL_DB='bkb-data'                        \
	-e MSSQL_USER='admin'                         \
	-e MSSQL_PASSWORD='pa$$w0rd554'               \
	-e MSSQL_TARGET_ENCRYPT_CONNECTION='false'    \
	-e MSSQL_TRUST_SERVER_CERTIFICATE='true'      \
    -e DASHBOARD_HIDE_TEST_CLIENTS_DEFAULT='true' \
	"ghcr.io/js-soft/nmshd-bkb-data-dashboard:latest"
```

The dashboard server uses multi-process load balancing by default. The number of workers defaults to 4 can be set via the environment variable `DASHBOARD_NUM_WORKERS`. If your method of deployment has other means of horizontal scaling the built-in load balancing can be disabled by setting the number of workers to 1.

# Dev Setup

1. Clone the repository, ensure [Python ≥3.12](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv), [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) and the [Work Sans font](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Work+Sans) are installed. Then install all dependencies and activate your virtual environment.

    ```bash
    poetry install --with dev
    poetry shell
    ```

2. Provide the location and credentials for the backbone database server to use during development by setting the environment variables listed in the usage instructions above. `DASHBOARD_NUM_WORKERS` is not used in a dev setting.

3. (Optional) A local backbone mssql server and database can be bootstrapped from a local _.bacpac_ backup file using _dev/bootstrap-mssql.docker-compose.yml_. Check the file for information on what to configure.

4. Start the dashboard server locally via `python main.py`. The hostname and port default to _localhost_ and _5000_, respectively. To override these defaults use the environment variables:
    - `DASHBOARD_HOSTNAME`: Hostname or IP-address of dashboard server
    - `DASHBOARD_PORT`: Port of dashboard server

Commit message:

Feature/parameterize test clienttypes (#6)
* WIP: dynamic configuration of test clients

* Make app/connector split configurable by regex

* Chore: Update pyproject.toml

- Remove unused dependency
- Configure poetry to not package python application

* remove unused dev dependency

* formatting

* formatting

* rename envvar

* typo

* readme

---------

Co-authored-by: Stanislaw Hüll <stanislaw.huell@js-soft.com>

README.md, after:

**Enmeshed Backbone Data Dashboard**

# Usage

Releases are available as Docker images in the [project's Github container registry](https://github.com/js-soft/nmshd-bkb-data-dashboard/pkgs/container/nmshd-bkb-data-dashboard). Containers are configured using the following obligatory environment variables:

- `MSSQL_HOSTNAME`: Hostname or IP-address of the backbone MSSQL server, e.g. _localhost_ or _10.8.16.44_.
- `MSSQL_PORT`: Port of MSSQL server, e.g. _1433_.
- `MSSQL_DB`: Name of the backbone database to target within the MSSQL server, e.g. _bkb-data_.
- `MSSQL_USER`: Username, e.g. _admin_.
- `MSSQL_PASSWORD`: Password for above user, e.g. _pa$$w0rd554_.
- `MSSQL_TARGET_ENCRYPT_CONNECTION`: Specifies if SQL encryption should be used for the target database connection. Must be either _true_ or _false_.
- `MSSQL_TRUST_SERVER_CERTIFICATE`: Specifies whether to use TLS to encrypt the target database connection and bypass walking the certificate chain to validate trust. Must be either _true_ or _false_.
- `DASHBOARD_HIDE_TEST_CLIENTS_DEFAULT`: Configures whether to hide or show data associated with test clients by default. Must be either _true_ or _false_.
- `DASHBOARD_TEST_CLIENTS_REGEX`: Configures which client IDs to consider test clients using a [regular expression](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#regular-expression-syntax). For example, to match the client ID _dev_ and all other client IDs which start with the prefix _test-_ use the regular expression _dev|test-.*_.
- `DASHBOARD_APP_CLIENTS_REGEX`: Configures which client IDs to consider app clients using a [regular expression](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#regular-expression-syntax). For example, to match  the client ID _app-dev_ and all other client IDs which start with the prefix _app-_ use the regular expression _app-dev|app-.*_. Client IDs not matched by the pattern are considered connector clients.

The dashboard is exposed at port 5000 by default. For example, to launch a dashboard listening at _http://localhost:80_, which connects to a MSSQL server with the above exemplary credentials the following command may be used:

```bash
docker run --rm                                     \
	-p 80:5000                                      \
	-e MSSQL_HOSTNAME='10.8.16.44'                  \
	-e MSSQL_PORT='1433'                            \
	-e MSSQL_DB='bkb-data'                          \
	-e MSSQL_USER='admin'                           \
	-e MSSQL_PASSWORD='pa$$w0rd554'                 \
	-e MSSQL_TARGET_ENCRYPT_CONNECTION='false'      \
	-e MSSQL_TRUST_SERVER_CERTIFICATE='true'        \
	-e DASHBOARD_HIDE_TEST_CLIENTS_DEFAULT='true'   \
	-e DASHBOARD_TEST_CLIENTS_REGEX='dev|test-.*'   \
	-e DASHBOARD_APP_CLIENTS_REGEX='app-dev|app-.*' \
	"ghcr.io/js-soft/nmshd-bkb-data-dashboard:latest"
```

The dashboard server uses multi-process load balancing by default. The number of workers defaults to 4 can be set via the environment variable `DASHBOARD_NUM_WORKERS`. If your method of deployment has other means of horizontal scaling the built-in load balancing can be disabled by setting the number of workers to 1.

# Dev Setup

1. Clone the repository, ensure [Python ≥3.12](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv), [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) and the [Work Sans font](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Work+Sans) are installed. Then install all dependencies and activate your virtual environment.

    ```bash
    poetry install --with dev
    poetry shell
    ```

2. Provide the location and credentials for the backbone database server to use during development by setting the environment variables listed in the usage instructions above. `DASHBOARD_NUM_WORKERS` is not used in a dev setting.

3. (Optional) A local backbone mssql server and database can be bootstrapped from a local _.bacpac_ backup file using _dev/bootstrap-mssql.docker-compose.yml_. Check the file for information on what to configure.

4. Start the dashboard server locally via `python main.py`. The hostname and port default to _localhost_ and _5000_, respectively. To override these defaults use the environment variables:
    - `DASHBOARD_HOSTNAME`: Hostname or IP-address of dashboard server
    - `DASHBOARD_PORT`: Port of dashboard server
